---
title: "Anth 207x: Dating method"
date: 2022-12-26
author: Fangyuan Sheng
slug: Dating method
draft: false
toc: false
tags:
  - English
---
{{<block class="note">}}
I really like the edX course [Anth 207x: Introduction to Human Evolution](https://learning.edx.org/course/course-v1:WellesleyX+ANTH207x_2+2T2015/home) lectured by Professor Adam Van Arsdale of Wellesley College, and I took a series of notes to this course. This article is based on my notes.{{<end>}}


## Relative dating method


1.**Geo-chronology**: Correlate the age of different sedimentary layers across locations, particularly distinctive sedimentary layers like volcanic ash falls 

2.**Bio-chronolog**: Identify sequences based on fossils contained within these layers. For example,  specific fossils are found across different locations.

2.**Paleo-magnetism**: Certain kinds of rocks preserve the polarity information of the earth when they were formed, which enables us to determine whether the layer was in periods of normal magnetic polarity or reverse magnetic polarity.

## Absolute dating method


1.**Radiometric dating**: It takes advantage of the fact that naturally occurring compounds decay over time from one isotope to another isotope. For instance, carbon dating is usually used to date periods up to about 50,000 years in the past as has a relatively short half-life of about 5,700 years. Beyond that, the amount of carbon isotope would be too small to be detected. By contrast, other isotope like argon, potassium and uranium can span hundreds of millions of years since they are of much longer half-lives. 

2. **OSL (optically-stimulated luminescence) / TL (thermoluminescence)**: It is based on the fact that certain rocks/materials within rocks was buried and not exposed to the sunlight for a long period of time. Scientists are able to use chemical treatment to determine when they were last exposed to light.

3. **ESR (electron spin resonance)**: When a rock is superheated and then cooled down very quickly, the electrons within that rock show certain kinds of properties. Dating is possible by examining those properties.


References: Introduction to Human Evolution, https://learning.edx.org/course/course-v1:WellesleyX+ANTH207x_2+2T2015/home
