---
title: "On the evolution of human society: Lewis Morgan, Elman Service, Kwang-chih Chang and Su Bingqi"
date: 2023-06-27
author: Fangyuan Sheng
slug: Society
draft: false
toc: false
tags:
  - English
---

{{<block class="note">}}

The evolution of social organization is mentioned for many times in the classes I attended this semester. So I decided to write an article to summerize and compare different theories on the topic.

{{<end>}}

## Lewis Morgan

Lewis Morgan brought up the idea of "Savagery-Barbarism-Civilization" stages in his *Ancient Society*. 

| Periods | Divisions |Conditions|
|---------|---------|---------|
|Savagery |I. Lower Status of Savagery|	 Infancy of the Human Race |
|Savagery |II. Middle Status of Savagery|	Acquisition of a fish subsistence and a knowledge of the use of fire|
|Savagery |III. Upper Status of Savagery|	Invention of the Bow and Arrow|
|Barbarism |IV. Lower Status of Barbarism|	Invention of the Art of Pottery|
|Barbarism| V. Middle Status of Barbarism|	Domestication of animals on the Eastern hemisphere, and in the Western from the cultivation of maize and plants by Irrigation, with the use of adobe-brick and stone|
|Barbarism |VI. Upper Status of Barbarism|	Invention of the process of Smelting Iron Ore, with the use of iron tools|
|Civilization| VII. Status of Civilization|	Invention of a Phonetic Alphabet, with the use of writing|

During savergery and barbarism stage, Lewis Morgan further defined 4 organizations of society.

(1) **Gens**: a body of consanguinei having a common gentile name
  
(2) **Phratry**: an assemblage of related gentes united in a higher association for certain common objects
  
(3) **Tribe**: an assemblage of gentes, usually organized in phratries, all the members of which spoke the same dialect
  
(4) **Confederacy of tribes**: members spoke dialects of the same stock language. It resulted in a gentile society (*societas*), as distinguished from a political society or state (*civitas*). 

## Elman Service and Kwang-chih Chang 

Lewis Morgan believed that social members were equal before the civilization stage, which was later disproved by other ethnographic evidence. 

Elman Service came up with chiefdom stage based on new evidence in his *Primitive Social Organization* where chiefdom is the stage when social inequality emerged.
  
(1) **Band**：the smallest unit of a few families with no formal leadership positions
  
(2) **Tribe**：larger populations organized around family ties shifting systems with temporary leadership
  
(3) **Chiefdom**：large political units with chief holding a formal position of power
  
(4) **State**: a central government of physical force, bureaucracy, formal laws, and military force
  
Kwang-chih Chang applied this theory into the discussion of Chinese society in his discussion of Chinese bronze age.

| Name | Stage 1 |Stage 2|Stage 3|Stage 4|
|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|
|Service |Bands| Tribes| Chiefdoms |States |
|Kwang-chih Chang |Paleolithic & Mesolithic| *Yangshao* Culture| *Longshan* Culture |*Xia*|


## Su Bingqi
  
Based on archaeological materials in China, Su Bingqi proposed 'Three Stages' theory. Later, three models for the formation of states in China (Su 1994: 132-4) are formed:
  
(1) **Original Model** of northern pattern: **early states (guguo)**: marked by the ritual complex of the Hongshan culture - **regional states (fangguo)**: the proto-Great Wall of the Xiajiadian lower level culture - **empire (diguo)**: the Great Wall of China and the remains of Qin palaces;
  
(2) **Secondary Model** of the Central Plains: the Taosi culture, the Xia/Shang/Zhou dynasties and the unification of the Qin;
  
(3) **Extended Model**: the period of migration and integration of different peoples after the end of the Qin Empire.

Unfortunately, terms in three stages and three models are not well defined and sometimes contradictary to each other. I jot a rough table for comparison with Kwang-chih Chang based on my understanding, which might not be appropriate.
  
  ### A comparison between Kwang-chih Chang and Su Bingqi
  
| Name | Stage 1 |Stage 2|Stage 3|Stage 4|Stage 5|
|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|  
|Kwang-chih Chang |Bands: Paleolithic & Mesolithic| Tribes: *Yangshao* Culture|Chiefdoms: *Longshan* Culture |States: *Xia*| -- |
|Su Bingqi |Early cultures (guwenhua) |Early cities (gucheng) | Early states (gucheng): *Hongshan* Culture  |Regional states (fangguo): the proto-Great Wall of the Xiajiadian lower level culture| Empire (diguo): Qin Empire|

 
  Reference:
  (1) Morgan L H, White L A. Ancient society[M]. Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1964.
  
  (2) Hong-Yan Z.From "Chiefdom" to "Original State":the Review for the 20th Century Theories and Patterns about the Origin of the Chinese Civilization[J].Journal of Northwest University(Philosophy and Social Sciences Edition), 2013.
  
  (3) Su, Bingqi. Zhongguo wenming qiyuan xintan中國文明起源新探 (new investigation of the rise of Chinese civilization). Hong Kong: Shangwu yinshuguan, 1997.
  
  (4) https://courses.lumenlearning.com/suny-culturalanthropology/chapter/political_anthropology/
  
  (5) 張光直.中国青铜时代[M].生活・讀書・新知三联书店,1999.

