---
title: "[My Essay]Exploring the Economy of Ancient Egypt: An Analysis of Economic Lists in the Papyrus Harris I
 "
date: 2025-14-18
author: Fangyuan Sheng
slug: eg
draft: false
toc: false
---

{{<block class="note">}}

Abstract:

To address the inconsistencies in the economic lists and improve the accuracy of the original text, this study employs a structured analytical approach grounded in modern accounting standards. The contents of List A have been reclassified into categories such as human resources, property, plant and equipment, and current assets, while List B has been reorganized into monetary assets, manufactured products, biological assets, and other. Numerical figures have also been revised to reflect corrected calculations. The revised table is provided in the appendix (Appendix I), along with translations of selected original passages referenced throughout this essay (Appendix II). The translations are based on the book Le Papyrus Harris I (Grandet 1994) . 

The tax burden imposed on ancient Egyptian populations exhibits considerable regional variation. In this context, Thebes holds a clear advantage in terms of the total tax. However, looking at absolute tax totals alone doesn't fully capture the dynamics of taxation. To better assess the relative tax burden across cities, this analysis introduces two key measures: “tax per capita” and the “tax per capita index”. These metrics enable a comparative evaluation of tax burdens and resource specialization, shedding light on the economic and geographic factors shaping regional tax profiles.   

 {{<end>}}

Please click the link below to read my study on the Economy of Ancient Egypt:

[Literature Review](https://hellenshengfy.github.io/HPI_essay.pdf)

   
